Using Angular to develop a SPA was very similar to using raw HTML. Of course, there are many differences but the overall syntax was so close to native HTML that it made it feel easier to me since I have some experience with HTML prior to this class. A NoSQL backend was used because we didn’t need the data being stored to be relational in a sense. We needed to store data in our database but some documents within a single collection could look different from one another so the flexibility of using a NoSQL database was a no brainer in my opinion. Comparing JSON to JavaScript is like comparing apples to oranges, they are two different things. JavaScript is a language while JSON is a way that objects are stored so it is difficult to really compare the two. JSON ties together the front and backend by giving our application a uniform way of storing data. By storing data in JSON objects, our entire application is on the same page so to speak when it comes to the structure of that data and how to parse it. While our assignments didn’t directly tell us to do so, I improved functionality by adding a register users button to my login page. The only way to register a user on the admin end of the app was by doing so through Postman and I thought that was ridiculous, so I added a component to register users.
Testing I realized is incredibly important especially when adding new functionality. There were a few times where I had to go back and create new endpoints on my backend because I wanted to develop new features on the frontend and the only way to test those frontend features was to have my application communicate with my database. Laying the initial foundation for my API was a long process but once I got that set, adding to it was very easy.This course has helped me reach my professional goals because it taught me what I would be doing if I wanted to be a web developer. All the courses leading up to this one was just us adding tools to our toolbox, but this course was about building something with those tools. I can honestly say that this was most enjoyable class of my entire degree.
